So we talked about how iterators are becoming more and more popular as a replacement for loops especially
when you just need to simply loop through an array or another type of collection like a set or a map.
But what is an iterator really well essentially it's just an object that's all it really is and it's
designed for us to do iterations with.
Now this iterator object that we are going to create has a next method on it and the next method returns
a result object and this result object has two different properties the value which is going to be the
next value in the iteration and a done property which is going to be false as long as there's something
else to be iterated through and it's going to be true whenever you're done iterating through your collection.
And there's no more values to return.
So how do we make an iterator object.
Well we could do it ourselves and write it by hand but honestly that's not the way to go.
We have another thing available to us inside of ESX and it's called a generator function or a generator
function is just a function that returns an iterator.
So we'll go ahead and make our generator function the way we do it is we just write function and then
to make this a generator function we just put an asterisk or a star in the name of our function.
So what do you make iterator.
OK like so normal function aside from that inside of here I'm going to do something a little weird but
I'm going to talk about it here in a second.
So going to do yield which is a keyword and then one another yield statement and another yield statement.
So going to yield one to three.
We're going to talk about what that means exactly here in a second.
But now we can create an iterator object so I'll let it a rate more and then I'm just going to call
my generator function like I said before generator function returns an iterator.
So now this variable is an iterator.
So what I can do with it is counsel dialogue.
Iterator Doughton next door value like so now I'm just going to copy and paste this three times and
then for the fourth time that I pass it I'm going to change it from value to done.
Now if I save this you can see it goes one to three and then true.
So what's going on here.
Well like I said before we created this iterator object because that's what a generator function returns
an iterator object.
Now every iterator object has a method built into it called next.
Now next is going to return an object itself a result object and you can see this if I get rid of dot
value and just call dot next.
You can see it just returns this object right here with a property of value and a property of done.
And that's why I say value because what I want to do is access the object that gets returned with dot
notation using either value or dot done.
Now aside from that we saw something else that's pretty weird.
We saw this yield keyword right here.
Now this is a new keyword inside of six.
And what it allows me to do is specify what value should be returned when I call the next method right
here.
So in this case I said yield to be 1.
So that is the value that will be returned inside of this results object.
Thanks to the next method right here.
And it also specifies in what order the value should be returned which is important for iteration.
Now the coolest thing I would say about the yield keyword is after you get to your first yield statement
and you run through it the function stops executing until you call the next method again.
So what will happen is I'm going to call this next method right here and it's going to run through the
first yield statement and then it's going to stop execution.
And until I get to my next.
My sequential or my following I should say another synonym for next my following.
Next method.
And then it'll call the second yield statement and then the third.
And then for the fourth one the value will be set to undefined.
You can see this if you change the fourth statement to undefined right here because there is no fourth
yield.
We didn't specify anything.
But like I said before whenever there is no more values to return the done property is set to a boolean
of true telling us that we are.
We have completed our iteration.
So this idea of being able to stop execution in the middle of a function is very very powerful.
And you're going to see how it applies to many different things in the sequential videos.